Building Block of system design

1. Domain name system
  how to design hierarchical and distributed naming systems for computer connected to the internet via different protocols
2. Load Balancers
  fairly distribute incoming clients requests among a pool of available servers. it also reduces load and can bypass failed servers
3. Databases
  enable to store, retrieve and modify and delete data
4. Key-value store
  store data with key value pair and achieving scalability, durability, configurability 
5. Content delivery network (CDN)
  design CDN that's used to keep viral content such as video, image, audio, and webpages. deliver content without reducing latency and burden on the data centers
6. Sequencer
  design of a unique IDs generator with a major focus on maintaining causality.
7. Service monitoring 
  help analyze the system and alert the stakeholders if a problem occurs. get early warning system so that system admin can act ahead. build one monitor system for client and one for server side.
8. Distributed caching
  caching system where multiple cache servers coordinate to store frequently accessed data
9. Distributed messaging Queue 
  queue with multiple users. These are then used for interacting between producers and consumers.
10. Publish-subscribe system
  design asynchronous service to service communication method called a pub sub system. popular in data processing systems
11. Rate limiter
  a system that slows down incoming requests based on a pre set limit. this will serve as a defense layer 
12. Blob store
  storage solution for unstructured data for example multimedia files
13. Distributed Search
  search system that take what the user want to search and find it in seconds. Think crawl, index and search
14. Distributed Logging
  design a system that allows services in a distributed system to log their events more efficiently 
15. Distributed Task Scheduling 
  scheduler system that mediates between tasks and resources. 
16. shared counters
  efficient distributed counting system to deal with millions of concurrent read/write requests like popular tweets


