System design uses the concepts of computer networking, parallel computing, and distributed systems to make a system that is scalable and great performance. 

Main part of system design:
Reliable- whether it can handle failure and errors
Effective- whether it meet all user needs and business requirements
Maintainable- whether it is flexible and can easily scale up or down. 

RPC- remote procedure calls
Use widely in distributed System
Like a middle man that handle the message and encrypt if needed

Consistency 
Strongest Consistency - strict consistency/ linearizability
sequential consistency
casual consistency 
Weakest Consistency - Eventual Consistency 

Eventual Consistency - no strict ordering and reads to return the latest write
read request will eventually returned but wont promise that it is the latest value 
however, it will eventually reach its final state
- hight availability 
- Domain name system is highly available system tha enables name lookups to millions of devices across the internet.


Causal Consistency 
-categorizing operations into dependent and independent operations
dependent operation is also called the causally related operations 
-doesn't ensure operation that is not causally related
-weak but better than eventual consistency
ie: like comment and replies. you want to have comment before replies


Sequential consistency
-stronger than casual 
-preserves the ordering specified by each client's programs
-but do not ensure that writes are visible instantly or in the same order as they occurred according to some global clock
ie: social network app, don't care if the posts are appearing in the correct order. but the will have some sort of ordering and their post will be ordered as they are submitted

Strict consistency aka linearizability
-strongest
-read request from any replicas will get the latest write value. once client receive the write has been performed then client can read the value 
ie: changing pW if we suspect something 


Failure level
Fail stop- node in the distributed system halts permanently. However, the other nodes can still detect that node by communicating with it.
Crash- node in the distributed system halts silently, and the other nodes can’t detect that the node has stopped working.
Omission failures - If node fails to respond to the incoming request then its send omission failure or if the node fails to receive the request and can't acknowledge it then it's receive omission failure.
Temporal failures - node generate correct results but it is too late to be useful
byzantine failures - node exhibits random behavior like transmitting arbitrary messages at arbitrary times, producing wrong results, or stopping midway. This mostly happens due to an attack by a malicious entity or a software bug. A byzantine failure is the most challenging type of failure to deal with.


Availability
-percentage of time that some service is accessible to clients and is operated normally 
(total time- amount of time service was down)/ total time  and * 100 
that gives you the percentage of the service's availability 


